Christian wives. Are you happy? Do you love being a wife? Well, probably right now you're looking at your husband and saying,
of course, that's good. But could you add even more joy to your marriage?
You may be thinking, yes, if only my husband would and you finished the sentence. I think most husbands would admit we have some room for improvement.
But this talk is for you. What can you do as a wife to add joy to your marriage?
Well, one of the first things is to think about your God assigned role. Open please to Genesis, chapter 2 and verse 18.
Now here, Jehovah is going to explain why he was making a wife for Adam.
Then Jehovah God said, it is not good for the man to continue to be alone. I am going to make a helper for him as a compliment of him.
So Eve was going to be a helper as a compliment of Adam. What is a compliment? Well, we feel sure that you sisters know a lot about complimentary colors.
When you go to pick out an outfit with accessories, you pick those with colors that blend well together, that are harmonious combination.
Or when you are making a meal, you know there are certain foods that go well with other foods or compliment other foods.
Like a Korean sister making kimchi probably will make rice or pasta with cheese, bacon and eggs, bread and butter.
There are so many combinations that compliment one another.
So when Jehovah God created Eve, he built into her feminine qualities that he knew would really work well with Adam's masculine qualities.
So Adam and Eve had a prospect of being a perfectly matched couple.
We could work well together. Eve could be fully happy in working with her husband and caring for that garden, a beautiful home God-gather.
But of course we know that didn't happen because of sin. Along with sin came stress.
And here we are, descendants of Adam and Eve. That's what we've got to, sin and stress.
But Jehovah helps us, doesn't he? And he gives us principles that can help us make a happy marriage.
Please open to Ecclesiastes.
Now Ecclesiastes chapter 4, verse 9 and 10, describe what a partnership should be like.
So wives, do you think of yourself as your husband's partner? Well let's read verse 9.
2 are better than 1 because they have a good reward for their hard work.
So your husband has made a decision. And maybe you think, hmm, I don't know if that's the best decision.
But you're his partner. So how will you help him?
Well you're going to support that decision. You're going to try to make it work. And what will be your reward?
Well first of all, you're going to accomplish so much more working together than you could individually.
But more than that, you're going to strengthen your friendship, your partnership with your husband.
Now verse 10, it adds, for if one of them falls, the other can help his partner up.
But what will happen to the one who falls with no one to help him up?
You may be thinking, well my husband's a strong man. And probably so. But inside he may be struggling with serious insecurities.
At times he may feel like a failure. Maybe he's lost his job and feels like he's not a good provider.
You're his partner. What are you going to do to lift him up?
Probably you're going to share with him some tactful words of comfort and encouragement.
That'll be a happy place. The book of Proverbs contains much wisdom and some of it is directed to wives.
For example, Proverbs 141.
The truly wise woman builds up her house, but the foolish one tears it down with her own hands.
So if you are wise, you will build up or increase respect for your husband on the part of your children and of others.
You don't want to be foolish by speaking negatively, talking about your husband's deficiencies or failures.
Nor would you want to undermine his own confidence by nagging or arguing with him.
You can do so much to contribute to a happy house. For example, at mealtimes, sharing in the conversation, adding perhaps a spiritual gem you found in your Bible reading or nice experience or even a humorous story, something that will lift the spirits of the whole family.
Now we want to go to Proverbs chapter 31 and probably right away you recognize this is the chapter that describes a capable wife.
And I think all of you wives want to be that. You want to be that Proverbs 31 wife.
When you read those verses, you realize this woman is very busy.
She's out there buying household supplies, caring for the health and the welfare of her family, helping others in need, spending money wisely, diligently caring for all the duties of a wife, mother, friend and neighbor.
We think many of you wives are doing all of those things and you do it day in and day out and you don't complain and you're happy.
Happy because you're giving and then you're even happier when this happens in verse 28.
Her children rise up and declare her happy. Her husband rises up and praises her.
So they do appreciate what you do. Sometimes they may not express it, but they do appreciate it.
There is another element to a very happy marriage and that's expressed in verse 11.
Her husband trusts her from his heart and he lacks nothing of value. Trust is so important in a marriage.
A wife must trust her husband and a husband must trust his wife.
You're going to have conversations. You're going to express your innermost feelings and thoughts.
You must not have fear that that's going to be shared with others or you'll be belittled in some way.
Now that's trust, a very important aspect of marriage.
So you wives build up your friendship, your confidence with your husband.
Now in verse 12 it adds, she rewards him with good, not bad, all the days of her life.
So wives, reward your husband with good, support him in what he has to do and we know that he will love you all the more.
It says all the days of your life. So all the days of your life build up that friendship with your husband,
whether he is a believer or not.
And we have to say in behalf of the thousands of hardworking elders and ministerial servants,
without your faithful support, it would be much more challenging to care for our responsibilities.
So thank you very much dear wives for what you're doing.
Now sometimes you feel obliged to speak your mind.
And in a trusting relationship that's expected.
But how will you speak your mind? Notice verse 26.
She opens her mouth and wisdom. The law of kindness is on her tongue.
So yes, you have something worthwhile to say, but how you say it is very, very important.
Will the law of kindness govern your tongue? If you say it in kindness your husband will love you all the more.
Finally let's read verse 30.
Charm may be false, beauty may be fleeting, but the woman who fears Jehovah will be praised.
See above all, a capable wife who fears Jehovah is highly valued and is to be praised.
So you dear wives who feared Jehovah, you worship him with all and respect.
And that's so important because that helps you to easily be in subjection to your husband because you know that this pleases your Heavenly Father.
So as you watch the following dramatization, notice how the wife rejoices in her husband.
I was so tired after work, but glad to finally get home until you got to be kidding me.
You're home honey.
I knew he had congregation stuff to work on, but seriously.
You talk to me?
You were supposed to talk to the girls about this. They're making it a habit.
At first it upset me he didn't say anything, but then I began to think it's actually something I've come to love about John.
His patience, he doesn't overreact, he's thoughtful, concerned, he really listens.
It's why he's such a good elder and why we've enjoyed so many blessings together.
Sometimes I forget, I could be more patient.
You know honey, you're right, this is completely unacceptable.
I'll talk to the girls as soon as they come through that door.
Thank you, I love you.
I love you too.
Did you notice how the wife rejoiced in her husband?
Well, when she walked into that kitchen, she saw the mess, she wasn't rejoicing and she wanted to say something to her husband and she did.
But how did she say it?
Did she yell at him?
No, she made her point.
How did the husband react?
He didn't overreact.
He let her think about it and he thought about it.
And as she thought about it, she thought, you know, he didn't overreact.
That's one of the things I love about my husband.
He is so patient.
And then of course, he talked with her and they resolved the issue.
So love triumphed over any possible argument or anger.
So continue dear wives, rely on Jehovah as you work to make your marriage a delight and Jehovah will bless and help you.
Brother Gary Bro, a helper to the service committee will now present the next talk of this symposium, call of a joy in your family, parents, rejoice in your children.